README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/hjudt/s2i-lisp.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/hjudt/s2i-lisp)

Common Lisp + Quicklisp OpenShift Build Image
==============================================

This repository contains the source for building a Quicklisp based Common Lisp application as a reproducible docker image using [source-to-image](https://github.com/openshift/source-to-image). This docker image is CentOS based, but the project includes Dockerfile.rhel7 for creating a RHEL based image as well.  The resulting images can be run using [docker](http://docker.io).


Usage
---------------------
To build a simple [sample-lisp-app](https://github.com/hjudt/sample-lisp-app) application using standalone [S2I](https://github.com/openshift/source-to-image) and then run the resulting image with [docker](http://docker.io) execute:

    ```
    $ s2i build https://github.com/hjudt/sample-lisp-app hjudt/lisp-10-centos7 sample-lisp-app
    $ docker run -p 8080:8080 sample-lisp-app
    ```

**Accessing the application:**

Run interactively as above, you can access the sample-lisp-app like so:
```
$ curl 127.0.0.1:8080
```

You will likely, however, prefer [OpenShift](https://www.openshift.com), where applications are created like so:
```
$ oc new-app hjudt/lisp-10-centos7~git://github.com/hjudt/sample-lisp-app
```

A [slynk](https://github.com/joaotavora/sly) server will be started on port 4005 for every application.  With OpenShift, you can forward port 4005 to your local host and connect to it with [SLY](https://github.com/joaotavora/sly) for interactive [Emacs](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/) based development.  Just identify the pod running your container with `oc get pods`, and then....
```oc port-forward sample-lisp-app-1-h5o5f 4005```

Follow this up in Emacs with...
```M-x sly-connect RET RET```

To teach Emacs how to translate filenames between the remote and local machines, you'll need to define [```sly-filename-translations```](http://joaotavora.github.io/sly/#Setting-up-pathname-translations)."

There are a number of excellent screencasts and tutorials on using SLY on the project web site at [https://github.com/joaotavora/sly](https://github.com/joaotavora/sly).

Note that slynk, by default, is configured to only listen on the
localhost loopback device.  This works well with OpenShift port
forwarding, as above, but if you run this container by hand you will
want to use the docker `--net host` option to allow for connections to
swank.

Also note that instead of using sly, you can also decide to use
slime, the traditional emacs common lisp development environment.
See below the section about environment variable DEV_ENV on how
to do this.

To install this image along with sample application template into OpenShift, run the following as the cluster manager:

    ```
    $ oc create -f lisp-image-streams.json -n openshift
    $ oc create -f lisp-web-basic-s2i.json -n openshift
    ```

Environment variables
---------------------

To set these environment variables, you can place them as a key value pair into a `.s2i/environment`
file inside your source code repository.

* **APP_SYSTEM_NAME**

    The name that quicklisp will know this application by.

* **APP_EVAL**

    SBCL evaluates this lisp form after ql:quickload'ing
    :$APP_SYSTEM_NAME.  For instance: "(webapp:start-webapp)".

* **APP_MEM**

    This value will be passed to sbcl via --dynamic-space-size and
    should be set to the amount of memory the application needs. It
    will be used for both building the image as well as running it.
    Its default value is 256M.

* **DEV_BACKEND**

    The default development environment backend that will be started
    is sly, but you can also use slime. This variable can be set to
    "slynk" or "swank", but if it is unset, no backend will be started
    at all.

* **DEV_BACKEND_PORT**

    The default slynk/swank port is 4005. Set this value to something
    else for your application to use a different port (e.g. if your
    application needs to use this port). This setting will only come
    into effect when a development backend has been selected via
    DEV_ENV.

Commit message:

Add new env var APP_SCRIPT to execute a startup script
This allows the app to be setup and run via a lisp file.

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/hjudt/s2i-lisp.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/hjudt/s2i-lisp)

Common Lisp + Quicklisp OpenShift Build Image
==============================================

This repository contains the source for building a Quicklisp based Common Lisp application as a reproducible docker image using [source-to-image](https://github.com/openshift/source-to-image). This docker image is CentOS based, but the project includes Dockerfile.rhel7 for creating a RHEL based image as well.  The resulting images can be run using [docker](http://docker.io).


Usage
---------------------
To build a simple [sample-lisp-app](https://github.com/hjudt/sample-lisp-app) application using standalone [S2I](https://github.com/openshift/source-to-image) and then run the resulting image with [docker](http://docker.io) execute:

    ```
    $ s2i build https://github.com/hjudt/sample-lisp-app hjudt/lisp-10-centos7 sample-lisp-app
    $ docker run -p 8080:8080 sample-lisp-app
    ```

**Accessing the application:**

Run interactively as above, you can access the sample-lisp-app like so:
```
$ curl 127.0.0.1:8080
```

You will likely, however, prefer [OpenShift](https://www.openshift.com), where applications are created like so:
```
$ oc new-app hjudt/lisp-10-centos7~git://github.com/hjudt/sample-lisp-app
```

A [slynk](https://github.com/joaotavora/sly) server will be started on port 4005 for every application.  With OpenShift, you can forward port 4005 to your local host and connect to it with [SLY](https://github.com/joaotavora/sly) for interactive [Emacs](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/) based development.  Just identify the pod running your container with `oc get pods`, and then....
```oc port-forward sample-lisp-app-1-h5o5f 4005```

Follow this up in Emacs with...
```M-x sly-connect RET RET```

To teach Emacs how to translate filenames between the remote and local machines, you'll need to define [```sly-filename-translations```](http://joaotavora.github.io/sly/#Setting-up-pathname-translations)."

There are a number of excellent screencasts and tutorials on using SLY on the project web site at [https://github.com/joaotavora/sly](https://github.com/joaotavora/sly).

Note that slynk, by default, is configured to only listen on the
localhost loopback device.  This works well with OpenShift port
forwarding, as above, but if you run this container by hand you will
want to use the docker `--net host` option to allow for connections to
swank.

Also note that instead of using sly, you can also decide to use
slime, the traditional emacs common lisp development environment.
See below the section about environment variable DEV_ENV on how
to do this.

To install this image along with sample application template into OpenShift, run the following as the cluster manager:

    ```
    $ oc create -f lisp-image-streams.json -n openshift
    $ oc create -f lisp-web-basic-s2i.json -n openshift
    ```

Environment variables
---------------------

To set these environment variables, you can place them as a key value pair into a `.s2i/environment`
file inside your source code repository.

* **APP_SYSTEM_NAME**

    The name that quicklisp will know this application by.

* **APP_EVAL**

    SBCL evaluates this lisp form after ql:quickload'ing
    :$APP_SYSTEM_NAME, e.g. "(webapp:start-webapp)". This only happens
    when :$APP_SCRIPT is not used.

* **APP_SCRIPT**

    SBCL loads this script and executes it instead of evaluating
    :$APP_EVAL. This script needs to take care of setting up and
    quickloading the application but thus gives full control over the
    startup process.

* **APP_MEM**

    This value will be passed to sbcl via --dynamic-space-size and
    should be set to the amount of memory the application needs. It
    will be used for both building the image as well as running it.
    Its default value is 256M.

* **DEV_BACKEND**

    The default development environment backend that will be started
    is sly, but you can also use slime. This variable can be set to
    "slynk" or "swank", but if it is unset, no backend will be started
    at all.

* **DEV_BACKEND_PORT**

    The default slynk/swank port is 4005. Set this value to something
    else for your application to use a different port (e.g. if your
    application needs to use this port). This setting will only come
    into effect when a development backend has been selected via
    DEV_ENV.
